---
layout: shell
title: Register
---


# Help

* Introduction
* Registration
* Carrying out your risk assessment
* 1. Preparation
* 2. Identification
* 3. Evaluation
* 4. Action Plan
* Report
* What happens next?

# Introduction

**Risk Assessment is the basis for successful safety and health management**, and the key to reducing work-related accidents and occupational diseases. If it is implemented well, it can **improve workplace safety and health** - and **business performance** in general.

**Worker's safety and health is protected in Europe** by an approach based on **assessing and managing risk**. Employers have a general duty to ensure the safety and health of workers in every aspect related to work and to carry out a risk assessment. **Every company must therefore conduct a risk assessment** and draw up an **action plan**. 
In order to carry out effective workplace risk assessment, all those involved require a clear understanding of:

* the legal context and concepts
* the process used to assess the risks
* the role to be played by the main actors involved in the process

**Workers and/or their representatives have the right to be consulted** on arrangements to carry out and participate in the risk assessment.

**More information** on **risk assessment** and about the **participation of workers and/or their representatives** in the risk assessment process.

# Registration

Is this your first visit? Follow these simple steps to get started:

1. Click on **"Register"**
2. Enter an **e-mail address** and a **password**
3. Read and accept the privacy policy

If you have registered already, this is how you enter your account

1. Insert your **e-mail address** and a **password**
2. **Sign in**
3. **Start a new risk assessment** by giving it a **title** (for example Your company 2010-07-03) or enter one of your **former risk assessments**. All your risk assessments are saved for future reference unless you choose to delete them.

# Carrying out your risk assessment

Carrying out a risk assessment is not something you can necessarily do in one go, you will be able to **stop whenever you want**. Make sure you **save** your progress and you will be able to continue from that point the next time you sign in.

Once you have signed in you will see a list of your former risk assessments ordered by date.

**Functions (buttons) in the top right hand corner:**

* **Status**: shows your progress on the completion of the risk assessment
* **Help**: opens the manual you are reading now
* **My Assessments**: takes you to your previous risk assessments
* **Logout**: you leave the session
* **Settings**: allows you to change or delete your email address and password


**Main horizontal bar:**

It shows the different steps you have to go through to carry out a complete risk assessment.

1. Preparation
2. Identification
3. Evaluation
4. Action plan
5. Report


# 1. Preparation

In this step, depending on the structure of the tool you may be asked to:

* **select or skip situation(s) relevant or not based on whether they are relevant** to your business activity. Tick the box(es) if appropriate
* **list multiple business units**, or branches, or stores, etc. The related risks will be repeated for each name you have entered.

The preparation step is very important as it accurately defines the type of business and the related risks your company deals with.

# 2. Identification

In this step you will **identify hazards and problems in your company**.

On the first page you have the option **to download and print the list of hazards or problems included in the tool**. This enables you to **consult** with your **employees** and/or distribute the printed list to them so that they can participate in the hazard or problem identification (and subsequent risk evaluation).

Click on **“Start Risk Identification”** to begin identifying the hazards specific to your organisation.

On the **left of the page** you will see all of the **topics** and **subtopics** included in the tool. 
After answering a hazard statement, a **coloured symbol** will appear in this left hand menu to indicate whether you have answered positively (green check), negatively (red cross) or whether you have decided to skip it and answer later (yellow question mark).

# 3. Evaluation

In this step you **evaluate the risks arising from the hazards/problems** spotted in the Identification step and **assess how serious** these risks are.
For each risk, and depending on the evaluation method provided, you will have to:

* decide on its **priority**: high, medium or low

OR

* set the variables (the frequency, the severity and the probability) for the system to automatically calculate the priority of the risk according to your setting.

This result will be displayed in the Action plan step.

**Priority risks set by the sector**:

Some risks are so important and have such serious consequences that they won't have to be evaluated by you. You will have to tackle them in the action plan step.

# 4. Action Plan

In this step you decide the **measures you can implement to eliminate or reduce the identified risks**.

You can insert your own measures and/or select measures suggested by the system. You can further modify the proposed measures.

For each measure complete:

* The **general approach** (to eliminate or reduce the risk)
* **The specific action(s)** required to implement this approach
* The **level of expertise** and/or **requirements** needed
* The **person responsible**: the person in charge of the implementation.
* The **budget**: the costs that will have to be incurred.
* The start and end **date**.


# Report

In this step you can **save the report to your computer** in order to **modify** it and **print** it for yourself and your employees.

Keep an updated printed version of your risk assessment available.

# What happens next?

You will start to **implement your Action plan**.

**Review the risk assessment regularly** - especially if there are any changes in your company. For example, when you buy a new machine, before and after reconstruction, etc. You do not need to start the risk assessment from scratch every time, but only to update the information in the last version.